# Intro

Microservices are still the most hyped approach to software
architecture. That has led to a huge number of new technologies to
support microservices. [Docker](https://www.docker.com) is a great
tool to package microservices in self-contained images and run many
microservices on a single machine but with separate file systems and
network interfaces. [Kubernetes](https://kubernetes.io/) runs Docker
containers in a cluster and enables load balancing as well as fail
over. It also adds feature like service discovery or
routing. Nowadays, Kubernetes has become a very important
infrastructure technology and has usage scenarios far beyond
microservices.

So microservices cause a lot of innovation for
infrastructures. Service meshes are the latest infrastructure
technology to support microservices even better. This primer gives an
overview of services meshes -- not just the concepts but also why
services meshes are useful and which implementations there are. It
even includes a hands-on example to experiment with a service mesh
yourself.

If you are interested in the concepts of microservices, there is also
the free [Microservices
Primer](https://microservices-book.com/primer.html) and the
[Microservices Book](https://microservices-book.com/primer.html). The
free [Microservices
Recipes](https://practical-microservices.com/recipes.html) booklet
talks about some other technologies to implement microservices as does
the [Pratical Microservices](https://practical-microservices.com/)
book.

And now enjoy this booklet!
